
            

            THE WORK (AS DEFINED BELOW) IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS CREATIVE COMMONS PUBLIC LICENCE ("CCPL"
                OR "LICENCE"). THE WORK IS PROTECTED BY COPYRIGHT AND/OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW. ANY USE OF THE WORK OTHER
                THAN AS AUTHORIZED UNDER THIS LICENCE OR COPYRIGHT LAW IS PROHIBITED. BY EXERCISING ANY RIGHTS TO THE
                WORK PROVIDED HERE, YOU ACCEPT AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS LICENCE. THE LICENSOR GRANTS
                YOU THE RIGHTS CONTAINED HERE IN CONSIDERATION OF YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF SUCH TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

                This Creative Commons England and Wales Public Licence enables You (all capitalised terms defined below)
                to view, edit, modify, translate and distribute Works worldwide, under the terms of this licence,
                provided that You credit the Original Author.

            'The Licensor' [one or more legally recognised persons or entities offering the Work under the terms and
                conditions of this Licence]

            and

            'You'

            agree as follows:

            CWQri2=7bO03,*` Definitions
                    U]t^'f5pEGzwN_ "Attribution" means acknowledging all the parties who have contributed to and have rights in the Work
                            or Collective Work under this Licence.
                        9|0:^ka^<8##~ "Collective Work" means the Work in its entirety in unmodified form along with a number of other
                            separate and independent works, assembled into a collective whole.
                        @8a`CIcPm])S:?yt/}.S "Derivative Work" means any work created by the editing, modification, adaptation or translation of the
                            Work in any media (however a work that constitutes a Collective Work will not be considered a
                            Derivative Work for the purpose of this Licence). For the avoidance of doubt, where the Work is a
                            musical composition or sound recording, the synchronization of the Work in timed-relation with a
                            moving image ("synching") will be considered a Derivative Work for the purpose of this Licence.
                        ZfOAc "Licence" means this Creative Commons England and Wales Public Licence agreement.
                        e-BO8Ie"^ "Licence Elements" means the following high-level licence attributes indicated in the title of this Licence:
                            Attribution, Share-Alike.
                        D@6wt "Original Author" means the individual (or entity) who created the Work.
                        E)H[,Oe`LtF| "Work" means the work protected by copyright which is offered under the terms of this Licence.
                        j(Tt xx^HF7p For the purpose of this Licence, when not inconsistent with the context, words in the singular number
                            include the plural number.

                (, 0, Licence Terms

                    I8'Y:I{z The Licensor hereby grants to You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive, Licence for use and for the
                                duration of copyright in the Work.

                            You may:

                            9SxeYHy40JXMIN *8b  copy the Work;
                                &s create one or more derivative Works;
                                :lkwZMU incorporate the Work into one or more Collective Works;
                                QOdX"#YbGee$^\ copy Derivative Works or the Work as incorporated in any Collective Work; and
                                Nn B publish, distribute, archive, perform or otherwise disseminate the Work or the
                                    Work as incorporated in any Collective Work, to the public in any material form in any media whether
                                    now known or hereafter created.

                            HOWEVER,

                            You must not:

                            f[- impose any terms on the use to be made of the Work, the Derivative Work or the
                                    Work as incorporated in a Collective Work that alter or restrict the terms of this Licence or any
                                    rights granted under it or has the effect or intent of restricting the ability to exercise those
                                    rights;
                                KtqX impose any digital rights management technology on the Work or the Work as
                                    incorporated in a Collective Work that alters or restricts the terms of this Licence or any rights
                                    granted under it or has the effect or intent of restricting the ability to exercise those rights;
                                \~F5`M9x@[N.|iW sublicense the Work;
                                 subject the Work to any derogatory treatment as defined in the Copyright,
                                    Designs and Patents Act 1988.

                            FINALLY,

                            You must:

                            PA)tJ] J$PUblJhK! make reference to this Licence (by Uniform Resource Identifier (URI), spoken
                                    word or as appropriate to the media used) on all copies of the Work and Collective Works published,
                                    distributed, performed or otherwise disseminated or made available to the public by You;
                                 recognise the Licensor's / Original Author's right of attribution in any Work and
                                    Collective Work that You publish, distribute, perform or otherwise disseminate to the public and
                                    ensure that You credit the Licensor / Original Author as appropriate to the media used; and
                                 to the extent reasonably practicable, keep intact all notices that refer to this
                                    Licence, in particular the URI, if any, that the Licensor specifies to be associated with the Work,
                                    unless such URI does not refer to the copyright notice or licensing information for the Work.

                        Additional Provisions for third parties making use of the Work

                            IyN}YG_Z'(urXMR Further licence from the Licensor

                            Each time You publish, distribute, perform or otherwise disseminate

                            jdGU6ApG0N the Work; or
                                X.-XX=I-dy$}oU any Derivative Work; or
                                0=1Lttg9. the Work as incorporated in a Collective Work

                            the Licensor agrees to offer to the relevant third party making use of the Work (in any of the
                            alternatives set out above) a licence to use the Work on the same terms and conditions as granted to You
                            hereunder.

                        jrM Wy 	 Further licence from You

                            Each time You publish, distribute, perform or otherwise disseminate

                             a Derivative Work; or
                                tlsih5Q*L-W a Derivative Work as incorporated in a Collective Work

                            You agree to offer to the relevant third party making use of the Work (in either of the alternatives
                            set out above) a licence to use the Derivative Work on any of the following premises:

                            nS= a licence to the Derivative Work on the same terms and conditions as the
                                    licence granted to You hereunder; or
                                %t!'[j_Ocy38 a later version of the licence granted to You hereunder; or
                                K'S9d$8D?x.,QR any other Creative Commons licence with the same Licence Elements.

                        qp\G6hRrY51FC| This Licence does not affect any rights that the User may have under any applicable
                            law, including fair use, fair dealing or any other legally recognised limitation or exception to
                            copyright infringement.

                        1htBAjRsMjN All rights not expressly granted by the Licensor are hereby reserved, including but
                            not limited to, the exclusive right to collect, whether individually or via a licensing body, such as a
                            collecting society, royalties for any use of the Work which results in commercial advantage or private
                            monetary compensation.

                <TC Warranties and Disclaimer

                    Except as required by law, the Work is licensed by the Licensor on an "as is" and "as available" basis and
                        without any warranty of any kind, either express or implied.

                |zy}hoBqLI.smRTQ|dv Limit of Liability

                    Subject to any liability which may not be excluded or limited by law the Licensor shall not be liable and
                        hereby expressly excludes all liability for loss or damage howsoever and whenever caused to You.

                nvF:@}VbhQD Termination

                    The rights granted to You under this Licence shall terminate automatically upon any breach by You of the
                        terms of this Licence. Individuals or entities who have received Collective Works from You under this
                        Licence, however, will not have their Licences terminated provided such individuals or entities remain in
                        full compliance with those Licences.

                n*kJJKB$;vaDyZt4Y General

                    =<9j14'A+GS	E6The validity or enforceability of the remaining terms of this agreement is not
                             affected by the holding of any provision of it to be invalid or unenforceable.
                        4z{>~{)")`0This Licence constitutes the entire Licence Agreement between the parties with
                            respect to the Work licensed here. There are no understandings, agreements or representations with
                            respect to the Work not specified here. The Licensor shall not be bound by any additional provisions
                            that may appear in any communication in any form.
                        J?4)A person who is not a party to this Licence shall have no rights under the
                            Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 to enforce any of its terms.
                        v&4This Licence shall be governed by the law of England and Wales and the parties
                            irrevocably submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts of England and Wales.

                rBIVze9 On the role of Creative Commons

                    L$?w? Drm"q~x)ELjG=Neither the Licensor nor the User may use the Creative Commons logo except to
                            indicate that the Work is licensed under a Creative Commons Licence. Any permitted use has to be in
                            compliance with the Creative Commons trade mark usage guidelines at the time of use of the Creative
                            Commons trade mark. These guidelines may be found on the Creative Commons website or be otherwise
                            available upon request from time to time.
                        =\	FaV`!	b={Creative Commons Corporation does not profit financially from its role in
                            providing this Licence and will not investigate the claims of any Licensor or user of the Licence.
                        zTUl+ss7;One of the conditions that Creative Commons Corporation requires of the Licensor
                            and You is an acknowledgement of its limited role and agreement by all who use the Licence that the
                            Corporation is not responsible to anyone for the statements and actions of You or the Licensor or
                            anyone else attempting to use or using this Licence.
                        *^PRU%3 Creative Commons Corporation is not a party to this Licence, and makes no
                            warranty whatsoever in connection to the Work or in connection to the Licence, and in all events is not
                            liable for any loss or damage resulting from the Licensor's or Your reliance on this Licence or on its
                            enforceability.
                        NUSE OF THIS LICENCE MEANS THAT YOU AND THE LICENSOR EACH ACCEPTS THESE CONDITIONS
                            IN SECTION 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.4 AND EACH ACKNOWLEDGES CREATIVE COMMONS CORPORATION'S VERY LIMITED ROLE AS
                            A FACILITATOR OF THE LICENCE FROM THE LICENSOR TO YOU.

            Creative Commons is not a party to this Licence, and makes no warranty whatsoever in connection with the Work.
                Creative Commons will not be liable to You or any party on any legal theory for any damages whatsoever, including
                without limitation any general, special, incidental or consequential damages arising in connection to this licence.
                Notwithstanding the foregoing two (2) sentences, if Creative Commons has expressly identified itself as the Licensor
                hereunder, it shall have all rights and obligations of Licensor.

            Except for the limited purpose of indicating to the public that the Work is licensed under the CCPL, neither party will
                use the trademark "Creative Commons" or any related trademark or logo of Creative Commons without the prior written
                consent of Creative Commons. Any permitted use will be in compliance with Creative Commons' then-current trademark
                usage guidelines, as may be published on its website or otherwise made available upon request from time to time.

            Creative Commons may be contacted at https://creativecommons.org/.