
      
      PREAMBLE
              The purpose of this Free Software Licensing Agreement is to grant users the right to modify and
                 redistribute the software governed by this license within the framework of an "open source"
                 distribution model.
              The exercising of these rights is conditional upon certain obligations for users so as to ensure that
                 this status is retained for subsequent redistribution operations.
              As a counterpart to the access to the source code and rights to copy, modify and redistribute granted by
                 the license, users are provided only with a limited warranty and the software's author, the
                 holder of the economic rights, and the successive licensors only have limited liability.
              In this respect, it is brought to the user's attention that the risks associated with loading,
                 using, modifying and/or developing or reproducing the software by the user given its nature of Free
                 Software, that may mean that it is complicated to manipulate, and that also therefore means that it is
                 reserved for developers and experienced professionals having in-depth computer knowledge. Users are
                 therefore encouraged to load and test the Software's suitability as regards their requirements in
                 conditions enabling the security of their systems and/or data to be ensured and, more generally, to
                 use and operate it in the same conditions of security. This Agreement may be freely reproduced and
                 published, provided it is not altered, and that no Articles are either added or removed herefrom.
              This Agreement may apply to any or all software for which the holder of the economic rights decides to
                 submit the operation thereof to its provisions.
        M9_k|Z
	  DEFINITIONS
            For the purposes of this Agreement, when the following expressions commence with a capital letter, they
             shall have the following meaning:
            Agreement: means this Licensing Agreement, and any or all of its subsequent versions.
                Software: means the software in its Object Code and/or Source Code form and, where applicable, its
                     documentation, "as is" at the time when the Licensee accepts the Agreement.
                Initial Software: means the Software in its Source Code and/or Object Code form and, where applicable,
                     its documentation, "as is" at the time when it is distributed for the first time under the
                     terms and conditions of the Agreement.
                Modified Software: means the Software modified by at least one Contribution.
                Source Code: means all the Software's instructions and program lines to which access is required so
                     as to modify the Software.
                Object Code: means the binary files originating from the compilation of the Source Code.
                Holder: means the holder of the economic rights over the Initial Software.
                Licensee(s): mean(s) the Software user(s) having accepted the Agreement.
                Contributor: means a Licensee having made at least one Contribution.
                Licensor: means the Holder, or any or all other individual or legal entity, that distributes the Software
                     under the Agreement.
                Contributions: mean any or all modifications, corrections, translations, adaptations and/or new
                     functionalities integrated into the Software by any or all Contributor, and the Static Modules.
                Module: means a set of sources files including their documentation that, once compiled in executable
                     form, enables supplementary functionalities or services to be developed in addition to those offered
                     by the Software.
                Dynamic Module: means any or all module, created by the Contributor, that is independent of the Software,
                     so that this module and the Software are in two different executable forms that are run in separate
                     address spaces, with one calling the other when they are run.
                Static Module: means any or all module, created by the Contributor and connected to the Software by a
                     static link that makes their object codes interdependent. This module and the Software to which it is
                     connected, are combined in a single executable.
                Parties: mean both the Licensee and the Licensor.
            These expressions may be used both in singular and plural form.
        T<XUm'8[\Fd?
	  PURPOSE
            The purpose of the Agreement is to enable the Licensor to grant the Licensee a free, non-exclusive,
             transferable and worldwide License for the Software as set forth in Article 5 hereinafter for the
             whole term of protection of the rights over said Software.
        qK*8Y8_$=yf_7yB7Y#=
	  ACCEPTANCE
            ?p\rW,r/
                    The Licensee shall be deemed as having accepted the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the
                     occurrence of the first of the following events:
                     3
                            loading the Software by any or all means, notably, by downloading from a remote server, or by
                             loading from a physical medium;
                        ;1)L\6Q6h	uNf;(a9
                            the first time the Licensee exercises any of the rights granted hereunder.
                .y:0YxX
                    One copy of the Agreement, containing a notice relating to the specific nature of the Software,
                     to the limited warranty, and to the limitation to use by experienced users has been provided
                     to the Licensee prior to its acceptance as set forth in Article 3.1 hereinabove, and the
                     Licensee hereby acknowledges that it is aware thereof.
        l}{>7G}O4_61#9vNIQ
	  EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM
            ,,ZI	GcAInY^
                    EFFECTIVE DATE
                    The Agreement shall become effective on the date when it is accepted by the Licensee as set forth
                     in Article 3.1.
                0 gr
                    TERM
                    The Agreement shall remain in force during the whole legal term of protection of the economic
                         rights over the Software.
        +1vSr>([-WN~m?*F
	  SCOPE OF THE RIGHTS GRANTED ---------------------------------------
            The Licensor hereby grants to the Licensee, that accepts such, the following rights as regards
             the Software for any or all use, and for the term of the Agreement, on the basis of the terms
             and conditions set forth hereinafter.
            Otherwise, the Licensor grants to the Licensee free of charge exploitation rights on the patents
             he holds on whole or part of the inventions implemented in the Software.
            ;$V>7F
	  RIGHTS OF USE
            The Licensee is authorized to use the Software, unrestrictedly, as regards the fields of
                 application, with it being hereinafter specified that this relates to:
                  ^C:oe0g,)!ghuu#^k#
            permanent or temporary reproduction of all or part of the Software by any or all means and in
               any or all form.
                     ShX:.
            loading, displaying, running, or storing the Software on any or all medium.
                     imt*Mgo>NXxsrMn
            entitlement to observe, study or test the operation thereof so as to establish the ideas and
               principles that form the basis for any or all constituent elements of said Software. This
               shall apply when the Licensee carries out any or all loading, displaying, running,
               transmission or storage operation as regards the Software, that it is entitled to carry
               out hereunder.
               j9H/
          ENTITLEMENT TO MAKE CONTRIBUTIONS
          The right to make Contributions includes the right to translate, adapt, arrange, or make any or
             all modification to the Software, and the right to reproduce the resulting Software.
                  The Licensee is authorized to make any or all Contribution to the Software provided that it
             explicitly mentions its name as the author of said Contribution and the date of the
             development thereof.
               ro*4cG<V*Y{*rbpX
          DISTRIBUTION AND PUBLICATION RIGHTS
          In particular, the right of distribution and publication includes the right to transmit and
             communicate the Software to the general public on any or all medium, and by any or all means,
             and the right to market, either in consideration of a fee, or free of charge, a copy or copies
             of the Software by means of any or all process. The Licensee is further authorized to
             redistribute copies of the modified or unmodified Software to third parties according to the
             terms and conditions set forth hereinafter.
	                 /rUpp7x(Z
		     REDISTRIBUTION OF SOFTWARE WITHOUT MODIFICATION
          The Licensee is authorized to redistribute true copies of the Software in Source Code or Object
             Code form, provided that said redistribution complies with all the provisions of the Agreement
             and is accompanied by:
                        .0;g`
            a copy of the Agreement,
                           _D	0WOB"-/h2fz[qGO^
            a notice relating to the limitation of both the Licensor's warranty and liability as set
               forth in Articles 8 and 9,
                        and that, in the event that only the Software's Object Code is redistributed, the
               Licensee allows future Licensees unhindered access to the Software's full Source Code
               by providing them with the terms and conditions for access thereto, it being understood
               that the additional cost of acquiring the Source Code shall not exceed the cost of
               transferring the data.
	                    A]q&W2o~c&gvm&[
	   REDISTRIBUTION OF MODIFIED SOFTWARE
            When the Licensee makes a Contribution to the Software, the terms and conditions for the
               redistribution of the Modified Software shall then be subject to all the provisions
               hereof.
                        The Licensee is authorized to redistribute the Modified Software, in Source Code or Object
               Code form, provided that said redistribution complies with all the provisions of the
               Agreement and is accompanied by:
                        2I?
            a copy of the Agreement,
                           P1?K,5_;}WC`
            a notice relating to the limitation of both the Licensor's warranty and liability as set
               forth in Articles 8 and 9,
                        and that, in the event that only the Modified Software's Object Code is redistributed,
               the Licensee allows future Licensees unhindered access to the Modified Software's
               full Source Code by providing them with the terms and conditions for access thereto, it
               being understood that the additional cost of acquiring the Source Code shall not exceed
               the cost of transferring the data.
                     F^v@X[e6c(6T+E6ywG
	    REDISTRIBUTION OF DYNAMIC MODULES
            When the Licensee has developed a Dynamic Module, the terms and conditions hereof do not
               apply to said Dynamic Module, that may be distributed under a separate Licensing
               Agreement.
                     -~!:@#
            COMPATIBILITY WITH THE GPL LICENSE
            In the event that the Modified or unmodified Software is included in a code that is subject
               to the provisions of the GPL License, the Licensee is authorized to redistribute the whole
               under the GPL License.
                        In the event that the Modified Software includes a code that is subject to the provisions of
               the GPL License, the Licensee is authorized to redistribute the Modified Software under
               the GPL License.

        
	  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
	    qf
            OVER THE INITIAL SOFTWARE
            The Holder owns the economic rights over the Initial Software. Any or all use of the Initial
             Software is subject to compliance with the terms and conditions under which the Holder has
             elected to distribute its work and no one shall be entitled to and it shall have sole
             entitlement to modify the terms and conditions for the distribution of said Initial
             Software.
                  The Holder undertakes to maintain the distribution of the Initial Software under the conditions
             of the Agreement, for the duration set forth in article 4.2..
               j]Gtz+3q4N"W:}R}U
          OVER THE CONTRIBUTIONS
          The intellectual property rights over the Contributions belong to the holder of the economic
             rights as designated by effective legislation.
               P=
          OVER THE DYNAMIC MODULES
          The Licensee having developed a Dynamic Module is the holder of the intellectual property rights
             over said Dynamic Module and is free to choose the agreement that shall govern its
             distribution.
               b4!Z[(|
          JOINT PROVISIONS
	    6.4.1. The Licensee expressly undertakes:
                        |+j,
            not to remove, or modify, in any or all manner, the intellectual property notices affixed to
               the Software;
                           SdY8*
            to reproduce said notices, in an identical manner, in the copies of the Software.
	                    6.4.2. The Licensee undertakes not to directly or indirectly infringe the intellectual
               property rights of the Holder and/or Contributors and to take, where applicable,
               vis-à-vis its staff, any or all measures required to ensure respect for said
               intellectual property rights of the Holder and/or Contributors.
          hE;m4hL>~Vt
	    RELATED SERVICES
        W3LH{P`'/;*sv'
          Under no circumstances shall the Agreement oblige the Licensor to provide technical assistance or
             maintenance services for the Software.
          However, the Licensor is entitled to offer this type of service. The terms and conditions of such
             technical assistance, and/or such maintenance, shall then be set forth in a separate
             instrument. Only the Licensor offering said maintenance and/or technical assistance services
             shall incur liability therefor.
               bDOY)^e^
          Similarly, any or all Licensor shall be entitled to offer to its Licensees, under its own
             responsibility, a warranty, that shall only be binding upon itself, for the redistribution of
             the Software and/or the Modified Software, under terms and conditions that it shall decide
             upon itself. Said warranty, and the financial terms and conditions of its application, shall
             be subject to a separate instrument executed between the Licensor and the Licensee.
        #G(
	  LIABILITY
        }R
          Subject to the provisions of Article 8.2, should the Licensor fail to fulfill all or part of its
             obligations hereunder, the Licensee shall be entitled to claim compensation for the direct
             loss suffered as a result of a fault on the part of the Licensor, subject to providing
             evidence of it.
               E3(G}&t=
          The Licensor's liability is limited to the commitments made under this Licensing Agreement
             and shall not be incurred as a result , in particular: (i) of loss due the Licensee's
             total or partial failure to fulfill its obligations, (ii) direct or consequential loss due to
             the Software's use or performance that is suffered by the Licensee, when the latter is a
             professional using said Software for professional purposes and (iii) consequential loss due to
             the Software's use or performance. The Parties expressly agree that any or all pecuniary
             or business loss (i.e. loss of data, loss of profits, operating loss, loss of customers or
             orders, opportunity cost, any disturbance to business activities) or any or all legal
             proceedings instituted against the Licensee by a third party, shall constitute consequential
             loss and shall not provide entitlement to any or all compensation from the Licensor.
        lU
	  WARRANTY
      z2fw[w	=-}	lh8]2]K
          The Licensee acknowledges that the current situation as regards scientific and technical know-how
             at the time when the Software was distributed did not enable all possible uses to be tested
             and verified, nor for the presence of any or all faults to be detected. In this respect, the
             Licensee's attention has been drawn to the risks associated with loading, using,
             modifying and/or developing and reproducing the Software that are reserved for experienced
             users.
          The Licensee shall be responsible for verifying, by any or all means, the product's
             suitability for its requirements, its due and proper functioning, and for ensuring that it
             shall not cause damage to either persons or property.
               %gH67y [^
          The Licensor hereby represents, in good faith, that it is entitled to grant all the rights on the
             Software (including in particular the rights set forth in Article 5 hereof over the
             Software).
               !kkb[7u&'Y",V8
          The Licensee acknowledges that the Software is supplied "as is" by the Licensor without
             any or all other express or tacit warranty, other than that provided for in Article 9.2 and,
             in particular, without any or all warranty as to its market value, its secured, innovative or
             relevant nature.
          Specifically, the Licensor does not warrant that the Software is free from any or all error, that
             it shall operate continuously, that it shall be compatible with the Licensee's own
             equipment and its software configuration, nor that it shall meet the Licensee's
             requirements.
               Zi)ot-^H:>FnZRe'RF
          The Licensor does not either expressly or tacitly warrant that the Software does not infringe any
             or all third party intellectual right relating to a patent, software or to any or all other
             property right. Moreover, the Licensor shall not hold the Licensee harmless against any or all
             proceedings for infringement that may be instituted in respect of the use, modification and
             redistribution of the Software. Nevertheless, should such proceedings be instituted against
             the Licensee, the Licensor shall provide it with technical and legal assistance for its
             defense. Such technical and legal assistance shall be decided upon on a case-by-case basis
             between the relevant Licensor and the Licensee pursuant to a memorandum of understanding. The
             Licensor disclaims any or all liability as regards the Licensee's use of the
             Software's name. No warranty shall be provided as regards the existence of prior rights
             over the name of the Software and as regards the existence of a trademark.
        6_+5.`q]M!?jx
	  TERMINATION
      {9k=:^`m
          In the event of a breach by the Licensee of its obligations hereunder, the Licensor may
             automatically terminate this Agreement thirty (30) days after notice has been sent to the
             Licensee and has remained ineffective.
               a1r<
          The Licensee whose Agreement is terminated shall no longer be authorized to use, modify or
             distribute the Software. However, any or all licenses that it may have granted prior to
             termination of the Agreement shall remain valid subject to their having been granted in
             compliance with the terms and conditions hereof.
        vg5#
	  MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
      Oc8:+'#]xb
          EXCUSABLE EVENTS
          Neither Party shall be liable for any or all delay, or failure to perform the Agreement, that may
             be attributable to an event of force majeure, an act of God or an outside cause, such as,
             notably, defective functioning, or interruptions affecting the electricity or
             telecommunications networks, blocking of the network following a virus attack, the
             intervention of the government authorities, natural disasters, water damage, earthquakes,
             fire, explosions, strikes and labor unrest, war, etc.
               
          The fact that either Party may fail, on one or several occasions, to invoke one or several of the
             provisions hereof, shall under no circumstances be interpreted as being a waiver by the
             interested Party of its entitlement to invoke said provision(s) subsequently.
               ^ 
          The Agreement cancels and replaces any or all previous agreement, whether written or oral,
             between the Parties and having the same purpose, and constitutes the entirety of the agreement
             between said Parties concerning said purpose. No supplement or modification to the terms and
             conditions hereof shall be effective as regards the Parties unless it is made in writing and
             signed by their duly authorized representatives.
               Qdq
          In the event that one or several of the provisions hereof were to conflict with a current or
             future applicable act or legislative text, said act or legislative text shall take precedence,
             and the Parties shall make the necessary amendments so as to be in compliance with said act or
             legislative text. All the other provisions shall remain effective. Similarly, the fact that a
             provision of the Agreement may be null and void, for any reason whatsoever, shall not cause
             the Agreement as a whole to be null and void.
               |y  ?
          LANGUAGE
          The Agreement is drafted in both French and English. In the event of a conflict as regards
             construction, the French version shall be deemed authentic.
        ]YXJ2JYFrF1_
	  NEW VERSIONS OF THE AGREEMENT
        QCI7=C
          Any or all person is authorized to duplicate and distribute copies of this Agreement.
               YlW!;TyXaA3E
          So as to ensure coherence, the wording of this Agreement is protected and may only be modified by
             the authors of the License, that reserve the right to periodically publish updates or new
             versions of the Agreement, each with a separate number. These subsequent versions may address
             new issues encountered by Free Software.
               jZ>h}sJyMob}MXu
          Any or all Software distributed under a given version of the Agreement may only be subsequently
             distributed under the same version of the Agreement, or a subsequent version, subject to the
             provisions of article 5.3.4.
        "'Yk352(z"n 
	  GOVERNING LAW AND JURISDICTION
        &JYz=h|U	 Uw
          The Agreement is governed by French law. The Parties agree to endeavor to settle the
             disagreements or disputes that may arise during the performance of the Agreement
             out-of-court.
               *]Bh&o@..i(NL.
          In the absence of an out-of-court settlement within two (2) months as from their occurrence, and
             unless emergency proceedings are necessary, the disagreements or disputes shall be referred to
             the Paris Courts having jurisdiction, by the first Party to take action.

      Version 1.1 of 10/26/2004