SUN INDUSTRY STANDARDS SOURCE LICENSE
    Version 1.2

      	8;n{*O?d1qG5uITib
        DEFINITIONS
        F]ofv444(w/
            Commercial Use means distribution or otherwise making the Original Code available to a third party.
               oG
            Contributor Version means the combination of the Original Code, and the Modifications made by that
               particular Contributor.
               xn8&6Yz>B
            Electronic Distribution Mechanism means a mechanism generally accepted in the software development
               community for the electronic transfer of data.
               #
            Executable means Original Code in any form other than Source Code.
               J?I>QQQ>J3hE|V
            Initial Developer means the individual or entity identified as the Initial Developer in the Source
               Code notice required by Exhibit A.
               D{t%aw|I(G<K@!@=hJ
            Larger Work means a work which combines Original Code or portions thereof with code not governed by
               the terms of this License.
               @#/
            License means this document.
               76Se\Qp6e
            Licensable means having the right to grant, to the maximum extent possible, whether at the time of
               the initial grant or subsequently acquired, any and all of the rights conveyed herein.
               Uq.z1#1(FFj[iT?aeP]@
            Modifications means any addition to or deletion from the substance or structure of either the
               Original Code or any previous Modifications. A Modification is:
            g
                Any addition to or deletion from the contents of a file containing Original Code or previous
                   Modifications.
                     |($i
                Any new file that contains any part of the Original Code or previous Modifications.
               4o3Ml]}
            Original Code means Source Code of computer software code which is described in the Source Code
               notice required by Exhibit A as Original Code.
               .Mru#Js-@"iw
            Patent Claims means any patent claim(s), now owned or hereafter acquired, including without
               limitation, method, process, and apparatus claims, in any patent Licensable by grantor.
               qDu^7W3
            Source Code means the preferred form of the Original Code for making modifications to it, including
               all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition files, or scripts used to
               control compilation and installation of an Executable.
               ''>Mi@AX]L{#3	AS6]x'
            Standards means the standards identified in Exhibit B.
               I*5=
            You (or Your) means an individual or a legal entity exercising rights under, and complying with all
               of the terms of, this License or a future version of this License issued under Section 6.1. For
               legal entities, You includes any entity which controls, is controlled by, or is under common
               control with You. For purposes of this definition, control means (a) the power, direct or
               indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise,
               or (b) ownership of more than fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding shares or beneficial
               ownership of such entity.
         55=
        SOURCE CODE LICENSE
        oFaA
            The Initial Developer Grant The Initial Developer hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free,
               non-exclusive license, subject to third party intellectual property claims:
            (a)under intellectual property rights (other than patent or trademark) Licensable by Initial
                   Developer to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform, sublicense and distribute the Original Code
                   (or portions thereof) with or without Modifications, and/or as part of a Larger Work; and
                     Ox5fvg!	3Y*\5td2
                under Patents Claims infringed by the making, using or selling of Original Code, to make, have made,
                   use, practice, sell, and offer for sale, and/or otherwise dispose of the Original Code (or
                   portions thereof).
                     s)t9L"*Z	g^fLv,\Z` j
                the licenses granted in this Section 2.1(a) and (b) are effective on the date Initial Developer first
                   distributes Original Code under the terms of this License.
                     _m5Z|O})=Rx
                Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no patent license is granted: 1) for code that You delete from
                   the Original Code; 2) separate from the Original Code; or 3) for infringements caused by: i) the
                   modification of the Original Code or ii) the combination of the Original Code with other software
                   or devices, including but not limited to Modifications.
         \7{=oDS^Q!
        DISTRIBUTION OBLIGATIONS
        RGB~
            Application of License. The Source Code version of Original Code may be distributed only under the
               terms of this License or a future version of this License released under Section 6.1, and You must
               include a copy of this License with every copy of the Source Code You distribute. You may not
               offer or impose any terms on any Source Code version that alters or restricts the applicable
               version of this License or the recipients rights hereunder. Your license for shipment of the
               Contributor Version is conditioned upon Your full compliance with this Section. The Modifications
               which You create must comply with all requirements set out by the Standards body in effect one
               hundred twenty (120) days before You ship the Contributor Version. In the event that the
               Modifications do not meet such requirements, You agree to publish either (i) any deviation from
               the Standards protocol resulting from implementation of Your Modifications and a reference
               implementation of Your Modifications or (ii) Your Modifications in Source Code form, and to make
               any such deviation and reference implementation or Modifications available to all third parties
               under the same terms a this license on a royalty free basis within thirty (30) days of Your first
               customer shipment of Your Modifications. Additionally, in the event that the Modifications you
               create do not meet the requirements set out in this Section, You agree to comply with the
               Standards requirements set out in Exhibit B.
               vg/>].|b	
            Required Notices. You must duplicate the notice in Exhibit A in each file of the Source Code. If it
               is not possible to put such notice in a particular Source Code file due to its structure, then You
               must include such notice in a location (such as a relevant directory) where a user would be likely
               to look for such a notice. If You created one or more Modification(s) You may add Your name as a
               Contributor to the notice described in Exhibit A. You must also duplicate this License in any
               documentation for the Source Code where You describe recipients rights or ownership rights
               relating to Initial Code.
            You may choose to offer, and to charge a fee for, warranty, support, indemnity or liability
               obligations to one or more recipients of Your version of the Code. However, You may do so only on
               Your own behalf, and not on behalf of the Initial Developer. You must make it absolutely clear
               than any such warranty, support, indemnity or liability obligation is offered by You alone, and
               You hereby agree to indemnify the Initial Developer for any liability incurred by the Initial
               Developer as a result of warranty, support, indemnity or liability terms You offer.
               7aWYhb[&-(j%QsBGeH
            Distribution of Executable Versions. You may distribute Original Code in Executable and Source form
               only if the requirements of Sections 3.1 and 3.2 have been met for that Original Code, and if You
               include a notice stating that the Source Code version of the Original Code is available under the
               terms of this License. The notice must be conspicuously included in any notice in an Executable or
               Source versions, related documentation or collateral in which You describe recipients rights
               relating to the Original Code. You may distribute the Executable and Source versions of Your
               version of the Code or ownership rights under a license of Your choice, which may contain terms
               different from this License, provided that You are in compliance with the terms of this License.
               If You distribute the Executable and Source versions under a different license You must make it
               absolutely clear that any terms which differ from this License are offered by You alone, not by
               the Initial Developer. You hereby agree to indemnify the Initial Developer for any liability
               incurred by the Initial Developer as a result of any such terms You offer.
               {!o#x
            Larger Works. You may create a Larger Work by combining Original Code with other code not governed by
               the terms of this License and distribute the Larger Work as a single product. In such a case, You
               must make sure the requirements of this License are fulfilled for the Original Code.
         ZP#82'=o!x@Q
        INABILITY TO COMPLY DUE TO STATUTE OR REGULATION
        If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this License with respect to some or
           all of the Original Code due to statute, judicial order, or regulation then You must: (a) comply
           with the terms of this License to the maximum extent possible; and (b) describe the limitations
           and the code they affect. Such description must be included in the LEGAL file described in Section
           3.2 and must be included with all distributions of the Source Code. Except to the extent
           prohibited by statute or regulation, such description must be sufficiently detailed for a
           recipient of ordinary skill to be able to understand it.
         
        APPLICATION OF THIS LICENSE
        This License applies to code to which the Initial Developer has attached the notice in Exhibit A and
           to related Modifications as set out in Section 3.1.
         NY]szI%
        VERSIONS OF THE LICENSE
        XYm_w=_v%
            New Versions. Sun may publish revised and/or new versions of the License from time to time. Each
               version will be given a distinguishing version number.
               
            Effect of New Versions. Once Original Code has been published under a particular version of the
               License, You may always continue to use it under the terms of that version. You may also choose to
               use such Original Code under the terms of any subsequent version of the License published by Sun.
               No one other than Sun has the right to modify the terms applicable to Original Code.
         [/@aSh9|
        DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY
        ORIGINAL CODE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN AS IS BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
           EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE ORIGINAL CODE IS FREE OF
           DEFECTS, MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE
           QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE ORIGINAL CODE IS WITH YOU. SHOULD ANY ORIGINAL CODE PROVE DEFECTIVE
           IN ANY RESPECT, YOU (NOT THE INITIAL DEVELOPER) ASSUME THE COST OF ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR
           OR CORRECTION. THIS DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO USE
           OF ANY ORIGINAL CODE IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.
         ek
        TERMINATION
        G|z{GF	
            This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate automatically if You fail to comply with
               terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All
               sublicenses to the Original Code which are properly granted shall survive any termination of this
               License. Provisions which, by their nature, must remain in effect beyond the termination of this
               License shall survive. 8.2 In the event of termination under Section 8.1 above, all end user
               license agreements (excluding distributors and resellers) which have been validly granted by You
               or any distributor hereunder prior to termination shall survive termination.

      