INTERBASE PUBLIC LICENSE
        Version 1.0
      ?eZ&in2?6r<i&%o
          Definitions.
          'yynp
              "Commercial Use" means distribution or otherwise making the Covered Code
                 available to a third party.
               
              ''Contributor'' means each entity that creates or contributes to the creation
                 of Modifications.
               {`ev%zZuHDjd l|=:
              ''Contributor Version'' means the combination of the Original Code, prior
                 Modifications used by a Contributor, and the Modifications made by that particular
                 Contributor.
               &d|n!p(,YXTN>vex?x5
              ''Covered Code'' means the Original Code or Modifications or the combination
                 of the Original Code and Modifications, in each case including portions thereof.
               *H8(
              ''Electronic Distribution Mechanism'' means a mechanism generally accepted in
                 the software development community for the electronic transfer of data.
               N;z Y3V]>eQ\
              ''Executable'' means Covered Code in any form other than Source Code.
               J
              ''Initial Developer'' means the individual or entity identified as the
                 Initial Developer in the Source Code notice required by Exhibit A.
               u%n@[VD*O,b
              ''Larger Work'' means a work which combines Covered Code or portions thereof
                 with code not governed by the terms of this License.
               0=H.p./V~=J*9<-
              ''License'' means this document.
               |U
              "Licensable" means having the right to grant, to the maximum extent possible,
                 whether at the time of the initial grant or subsequently acquired, any and all of the rights
                 conveyed herein.
               Hy43?4Ui,5~~YcbN
              ''Modifications'' means any addition to or deletion from the substance or
                 structure of either the Original Code or any previous Modifications. When Covered Code is
                 released as a series of files, a Modification is:
                
                  Any addition to or deletion from the contents of a file containing Original Code or previous
                     Modifications.
                     InzCY>`)A)l/&p*
                  Any new file that contains any part of the Original Code or previous Modifications.
               C7
              ''Original Code'' means Source Code of computer software code which is
                 described in the Source Code notice required by Exhibit A as Original Code, and which, at the
                 time of its release under this License is not already Covered Code governed by this
                 License.
               f6]](&3J3v`uc.z
              "Patent Claims" means any patent claim(s), now owned or hereafter acquired,
                 including without limitation, method, process, and apparatus claims, in any patent Licensable
                 by grantor.
               9p?OM}i
              ''Source Code'' means the preferred form of the Covered Code for making
                 modifications to it, including all modules it contains, plus any associated interface
                 definition files, scripts used to control compilation and installation of an Executable, or
                 source code differential comparisons against either the Original Code or another well known,
                 available Covered Code of the Contributor's choice. The Source Code can be in a
                 compressed or archival form, provided the appropriate decompression or de-archiving software
                 is widely available for no charge.
               4
              "You'' (or "Your") means an individual or a legal entity exercising
                 rights under, and complying with all of the terms of, this License or a future version of this
                 License issued under Section 6.1. For legal entities, "You'' includes any
                 entity which controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with You. For purposes of
                 this definition, "control'' means (a) the power, direct or indirect, to cause
                 the direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership
                 of more than fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of such
                 entity.
        c-CjaAsR(_~+
          Source Code License.
            bD)</`mdxDK$jvv,K."
              The Initial Developer Grant.
              The Initial Developer hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license,
                 subject to third party intellectual property claims:
                  |AGE{
                under intellectual property rights (other than patent or trademark) Licensable by Initial
                   Developer to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform, sublicense and distribute the
                   Original Code (or portions thereof) with or without Modifications, and/or as part of a
                   Larger Work; and
                     m)_MpWi
                under Patents Claims infringed by the making, using or selling of Original Code, to make,
                   have made, use, practice, sell, and offer for sale, and/or otherwise dispose of the
                   Original Code (or portions thereof).
                     l
                the licenses granted in this Section 2.1(a) and (b) are effective on the date Initial
                   Developer first distributes Original Code under the terms of this License.
                     GOR:b#m[{
                Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no patent license is granted: 1) for code that You
                   delete from the Original Code; 2) separate from the Original Code; or 3) for infringements
                   caused by: i) the modification of the Original Code or ii) the combination of the Original
                   Code with other software or devices.
               |ZP"UEu3eTWYpdGL`
              Contributor Grant.
              Subject to third party intellectual property claims, each Contributor hereby grants You a
                 world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license
                  9Kn<[c?C
                under intellectual property rights (other than patent or trademark) Licensable by
                   Contributor, to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform, sublicense and distribute the
                   Modifications created by such Contributor (or portions thereof) either on an unmodified
                   basis, with other Modifications, as Covered Code and/or as part of a Larger Work; and
                     ifK"!mDkMjM3-rPn2
                under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using, or selling of Modifications made by that
                   Contributor either alone and/or in combination with its Contributor Version (or portions
                   of such combination), to make, use, sell, offer for sale, have made, and/or otherwise
                   dispose of: 1) Modifications made by that Contributor (or portions thereof); and 2) the
                   combination of Modifications made by that Contributor with its Contributor Version (or
                   portions of such combination).
                     Gt|Q;Hho*ASP"(
                the licenses granted in Sections 2.2(a) and 2.2(b) are effective on the date Contributor
                   first makes Commercial Use of the Covered Code.
                     |2q=~J"DA?-azt;cx
                Notwithstanding Section 2.2(b) above, no patent license is granted: 1) for any code that
                   Contributor has deleted from the Contributor Version; 2) separate from the Contributor
                   Version; 3) for infringements caused by: i) third party modifications of Contributor
                   Version or ii) the combination of Modifications made by that Contributor with other
                   software (except as part of the Contributor Version) or other devices; or 4) under Patent
                   Claims infringed by Covered Code in the absence of Modifications made by that
                   Contributor.
        "%d3)JJ`ZZ~LJ$d
          Distribution Obligations.
             Q"Nd-~W
              Application of License.
              The Modifications which You create or to which You contribute are governed by the terms of this
                 License, including without limitation Section 2.2. The Source Code version of Covered Code may
                 be distributed only under the terms of this License or a future version of this License
                 released under Section 6.1, and You must include a copy of this License with every copy of the
                 Source Code You distribute. You may not offer or impose any terms on any Source Code version
                 that alters or restricts the applicable version of this License or the recipients' rights
                 hereunder. However, You may include an additional document offering the additional rights
                 described in Section 3.5.
               e%YC{{8_%,?:,(ia
              Availability of Source Code.
              Any Modification which You create or to which You contribute must be made available in Source
                 Code form under the terms of this License either on the same media as an Executable version or
                 via an accepted Electronic Distribution Mechanism to anyone to whom you made an Executable
                 version available; and if made available via Electronic Distribution Mechanism, must remain
                 available for at least twelve (12) months after the date it initially became available, or at
                 least six (6) months after a subsequent version of that particular Modification has been made
                 available to such recipients. You are responsible for ensuring that the Source Code version
                 remains available even if the Electronic Distribution Mechanism is maintained by a third
                 party.
               *?_{,
              Description of Modifications.
              You must cause all Covered Code to which You contribute to contain a file documenting the changes
                 You made to create that Covered Code and the date of any change. You must include a prominent
                 statement that the Modification is derived, directly or indirectly, from Original Code
                 provided by the Initial Developer and including the name of the Initial Developer in (a) the
                 Source Code, and (b) in any notice in an Executable version or related documentation in which
                 You describe the origin or ownership of the Covered Code.
               8$@!CG=S*AFvnX6 -:C
              Intellectual Property Matters
            ,^\
                Third Party Claims.
                If Contributor has knowledge that a license under a third party's intellectual property
                   rights is required to exercise the rights granted by such Contributor under Sections 2.1
                   or 2.2, Contributor must include a text file with the Source Code distribution titled
                   "LEGAL'' which describes the claim and the party making the claim in
                   sufficient detail that a recipient will know whom to contact. If Contributor obtains such
                   knowledge after the Modification is made available as described in Section 3.2,
                   Contributor shall promptly modify the LEGAL file in all copies Contributor makes available
                   thereafter and shall take other steps (such as notifying appropriate mailing lists or
                   newsgroups) reasonably calculated to inform those who received the Covered Code that new
                   knowledge has been obtained.
                     I>dB>(p
                Contributor APIs.
                If Contributor's Modifications include an application programming interface and
                   Contributor has knowledge of patent licenses which are reasonably necessary to implement
                   that API, Contributor must also include this information in the LEGAL file.
                     u3qJM-V vG{=H2"o
                Representations.
                Contributor represents that, except as disclosed pursuant to Section 3.4(a) above,
                   Contributor believes that Contributor's Modifications are Contributor's original
                   creation(s) and/or Contributor has sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this
                   License.
               Wk}"s!.r("g+	3e
              Required Notices.
              You must duplicate the notice in Exhibit A in each file of the Source Code. If it is not possible
                 to put such notice in a particular Source Code file due to its structure, then You must
                 include such notice in a location (such as a relevant directory) where a user would be likely
                 to look for such a notice. If You created one or more Modification(s) You may add your name as
                 a Contributor to the notice described in Exhibit A. You must also duplicate this License in
                 any documentation for the Source Code where You describe recipients' rights or ownership
                 rights relating to Covered Code. You may choose to offer, and to charge a fee for, warranty,
                 support, indemnity or liability obligations to one or more recipients of Covered Code.
                 However, You may do so only on Your own behalf, and not on behalf of the Initial Developer or
                 any Contributor. You must make it absolutely clear than any such warranty, support, indemnity
                 or liability obligation is offered by You alone, and You hereby agree to indemnify the Initial
                 Developer and every Contributor for any liability incurred by the Initial Developer or such
                 Contributor as a result of warranty, support, indemnity or liability terms You offer.
               <l
              Distribution of Executable Versions.
              You may distribute Covered Code in Executable form only if the requirements of Section 3.1-3.5
                 have been met for that Covered Code, and if You include a notice stating that the Source Code
                 version of the Covered Code is available under the terms of this License, including a
                 description of how and where You have fulfilled the obligations of Section 3.2. The notice
                 must be conspicuously included in any notice in an Executable version, related documentation
                 or collateral in which You describe recipients' rights relating to the Covered Code. You
                 may distribute the Executable version of Covered Code or ownership rights under a license of
                 Your choice, which may contain terms different from this License, provided that You are in
                 compliance with the terms of this License and that the license for the Executable version does
                 not attempt to limit or alter the recipient's rights in the Source Code version from the
                 rights set forth in this License. If You distribute the Executable version under a different
                 license You must make it absolutely clear that any terms which differ from this License are
                 offered by You alone, not by the Initial Developer or any Contributor. You hereby agree to
                 indemnify the Initial Developer and every Contributor for any liability incurred by the
                 Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of any such terms You offer.
               .6N$
              Larger Works.
              You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Code with other code not governed by the terms
                 of this License and distribute the Larger Work as a single product. In such a case, You must
                 make sure the requirements of this License are fulfilled for the Covered Code.
        M
          Inability to Comply Due to Statute or Regulation.
          If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this License with respect to some
             or all of the Covered Code due to statute, judicial order, or regulation then You must: (a)
             comply with the terms of this License to the maximum extent possible; and (b) describe the
             limitations and the code they affect. Such description must be included in the LEGAL file
             described in Section 3.4 and must be included with all distributions of the Source Code.
             Except to the extent prohibited by statute or regulation, such description must be
             sufficiently detailed for a recipient of ordinary skill to be able to understand it.
        M[[9W=F]q^RU l>}=@
          Application of this License.
          This License applies to code to which the Initial Developer has attached the notice in Exhibit A
             and to related Covered Code.
        &~iZAP@g~?he'md#l
          Versions of the License.
            =C76v0$<N
              New Versions.
              Borland Software Corporation (''Interbase'') may publish revised and/or new
                 versions of the License from time to time. Each version will be given a distinguishing version
                 number.
               UYclohq;}SP-X>
              Effect of New Versions.
              Once Covered Code has been published under a particular version of the License, You may always
                 continue to use it under the terms of that version. You may also choose to use such Covered
                 Code under the terms of any subsequent version of the License published by Interbase. No one
                 other than Interbase has the right to modify the terms applicable to Covered Code created
                 under this License.
               ?7{hB}:PJ`_I
              Derivative Works.
              If You create or use a modified version of this License (which you may only do in order to apply
                 it to code which is not already Covered Code governed by this License), You must (a) rename
                 Your license so that the phrases ''Mozilla'',
                 ''MOZILLAPL'', ''MOZPL'',
                 ''Netscape'', "MPL", ''NPL",
                 "Interbase", "ISC", "IB'' or any confusingly similar phrase
                 do not appear in your license (except to note that your license differs from this License) and
                 (b) otherwise make it clear that Your version of the license contains terms which differ from
                 the Mozilla Public License and Netscape Public License. (Filling in the name of the Initial
                 Developer, Original Code or Contributor in the notice described in Exhibit A shall not of
                 themselves be deemed to be modifications of this License.)
               S,eFZ	!ila>7=
              Origin of the Interbase Public License.
              The Interbase public license is based on the Mozilla Public License V 1.1 with the following changes:
                The license is published by Borland Software Corporation. Only Borland Software Corporation
                     can modify the terms applicable to Covered Code.
                The license can be modified used for code which is not already governed by this license.
                     Modified versions of the license must be renamed to avoid confusion with Netscape?s or
                     Interbase Software?s license and must include a description of changes from the
                     Interbase Public License.
                The name of the license in Exhibit A is the "Interbase Public License".
                The reference to an alternative license in Exhibit A has been removed.
                Amendments I, II, III, V, and VI have been deleted.
                Exhibit A, Netscape Public License has been deleted
                A new amendment (II) has been added, describing the required and restricted rights to use
                     the trademarks of Borland Software Corporation
        ?Eg~XL|oHk-v2/d]Z3_<
          DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.
          COVERED CODE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN "AS IS'' BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTY
             OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE
             COVERED CODE IS FREE OF DEFECTS, MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING.
             THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE COVERED CODE IS WITH YOU. SHOULD ANY
             COVERED CODE PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT, YOU (NOT THE INITIAL DEVELOPER OR ANY OTHER
             CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THE COST OF ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. THIS DISCLAIMER
             OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF ANY COVERED CODE IS
             AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.
        ivy[_=C5[
          TERMINATION.
            IIc8kRjL
              This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate automatically if You fail to comply
                 with terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach.
                 All sublicenses to the Covered Code which are properly granted shall survive any termination
                 of this License. Provisions which, by their nature, must remain in effect beyond the
                 termination of this License shall survive.
               rAFSY=+d3Eu
              If You initiate litigation by asserting a patent infringement claim (excluding declatory judgment
                 actions) against Initial Developer or a Contributor (the Initial Developer or Contributor
                 against whom You file such action is referred to as "Participant") alleging
                 that:
                {\vwlh<,a|YA(2n1x
                    such Participant's Contributor Version directly or indirectly infringes any patent, then
                       any and all rights granted by such Participant to You under Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 of
                       this License shall, upon 60 days notice from Participant terminate prospectively, unless
                       if within 60 days after receipt of notice You either: (i) agree in writing to pay
                       Participant a mutually agreeable reasonable royalty for Your past and future use of
                       Modifications made by such Participant, or (ii) withdraw Your litigation claim with
                       respect to the Contributor Version against such Participant. If within 60 days of notice,
                       a reasonable royalty and payment arrangement are not mutually agreed upon in writing by
                       the parties or the litigation claim is not withdrawn, the rights granted by Participant to
                       You under Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 automatically terminate at the expiration of the 60 day
                       notice period specified above.
                     E19;8Q~VV	K
                    any software, hardware, or device, other than such Participant's Contributor Version,
                       directly or indirectly infringes any patent, then any rights granted to You by such
                       Participant under Sections 2.1(b) and 2.2(b) are revoked effective as of the date You
                       first made, used, sold, distributed, or had made, Modifications made by that
                       Participant.
               +K40RC$|d)'iC9n-Y,q
              If You assert a patent infringement claim against Participant alleging that such
                 Participant's Contributor Version directly or indirectly infringes any patent where such
                 claim is resolved (such as by license or settlement) prior to the initiation of patent
                 infringement litigation, then the reasonable value of the licenses granted by such Participant
                 under Sections 2.1 or 2.2 shall be taken into account in determining the amount or value of
                 any payment or license.
               wI}E
              In the event of termination under Sections 8.1 or 8.2 above, all end user license agreements
                 (excluding distributors and resellers) which have been validly granted by You or any
                 distributor hereunder prior to termination shall survive termination.
        xG3]H0K=Z?NDFs=@zss
          LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
          UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT,
             OR OTHERWISE, SHALL YOU, THE INITIAL DEVELOPER, ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR, OR ANY DISTRIBUTOR OF
             COVERED CODE, OR ANY SUPPLIER OF ANY OF SUCH PARTIES, BE LIABLE TO ANY PERSON FOR ANY
             INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT
             LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL, WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR
             ANY AND ALL OTHER COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF SUCH PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN INFORMED OF
             THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION OF LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR
             DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY RESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY'S NEGLIGENCE TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE
             LAW PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF
             INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THIS EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO
             YOU.
        QAMZeymX
          U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS.
          The Covered Code is a ''commercial item,'' as that term is defined in 48
             C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting of ''commercial computer software''
             and ''commercial computer software documentation,'' as such terms are used
             in 48 C.F.R. 12.212 (Sept. 1995). Consistent with 48 C.F.R. 12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1
             through 227.7202-4 (June 1995), all U.S. Government End Users acquire Covered Code with only
             those rights set forth herein.
        Sj u;,GqQ(nop+_p
          MISCELLANEOUS.
          This License represents the complete agreement concerning subject matter hereof. If any provision
             of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the
             extent necessary to make it enforceable. This License shall be governed by California law
             provisions (except to the extent applicable law, if any, provides otherwise), excluding its
             conflict-of-law provisions. With respect to disputes in which at least one party is a citizen
             of, or an entity chartered or registered to do business in the United States of America, any
             litigation relating to this License shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Courts
             of the Northern District of California, with venue lying in Santa Clara County, California,
             with the losing party responsible for costs, including without limitation, court costs and
             reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses. The application of the United Nations Convention
             on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded. Any law or regulation
             which provides that the language of a contract shall be construed against the drafter shall
             not apply to this License.
        ]p$#W1<e5f>)>0"
          RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLAIMS.
          As between Initial Developer and the Contributors, each party is responsible for claims and
             damages arising, directly or indirectly, out of its utilization of rights under this License
             and You agree to work with Initial Developer and Contributors to distribute such
             responsibility on an equitable basis. Nothing herein is intended or shall be deemed to
             constitute any admission of liability.
        mw@}^9qH
          MULTIPLE-LICENSED CODE.
          Initial Developer may designate portions of the Covered Code as "Multiple-Licensed".
             "Multiple-Licensed" means that the Initial Developer permits you to utilize portions
             of the Covered Code under Your choice of the NPL or the alternative licenses, if any,
             specified by the Initial Developer in the file described in Exhibit A.
            EXHIBIT A - InterBase Public License.
            "The contents of this file are subject to the Interbase Public License Version 1.0 (the
             "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may
             obtain a copy of the License at http://www.Interbase.com/IPL.html
            Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT
             WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language
             governing rights and limitations under the License.
            The Original Code was created by InterBase Software Corp and its successors.
            Portions created by Borland/Inprise are Copyright (C) Borland/Inprise. All Rights Reserved.
            Contributor(s): f^; ^.
          AMENDMENTS
      f?F~|kI[Kuf|
          InterBase and logo. This License does not grant any rights to use the trademarks
             "Interbase'', "Java" or "JavaScript" even if such marks are
             included in the Original Code or Modifications.
        -D6]Pg>	WL=n|gE{Er
          Trademark Usage.
        gCAmKyYQ"=
              Advertising Materials. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of the covered Code
                 must display the following acknowledgement: "This product includes software developed by Borland
                 Software Corp. "
               _SyCd\#U\
              Endorsements. The names "InterBase," "ISC," and "IB" must not be used
                 to endorse or promote Contributor Versions or Larger Works without the prior written permission of
                 Interbase.
               9|"1N\zxDn3G.+
              Product Names. Contributor Versions and Larger Works may not be called "InterBase" or
                 "Interbase" nor may the word "InterBase" appear in their names without the prior
                 written permission of Interbase.