K=@
          You may make and give away verbatim copies of the source form of the software without
             restriction, provided that you duplicate all of the original copyright notices and associated
             disclaimers.
        {o./Ir
          You may modify your copy of the software in any way, provided that you do at least ONE of the
             following:
      WofNZ
          place your modifications in the Public Domain or otherwise make them Freely Available, such as by
             posting said modifications to Usenet or an equivalent medium, or by allowing the author to
             include your modifications in the software.
        O*N"+HS^P/U
          use the modified software only within your corporation or organization.
        fR_	!sFGw'YjM
          give non-standard binaries non-standard names, with instructions on where to get the original
             software distribution.
        ,_T~wh4
          make other distribution arrangements with the author.
        ZcE$&
          You may distribute the software in object code or binary form, provided that you do at least ONE
             of the following:
      KS,L;tsPrJ
          distribute the binaries and library files of the software, together with instructions (in the
             manual page or equivalent) on where to get the original distribution.
        6K4R? w!!mvy
          accompany the distribution with the machine-readable source of the software.
        L4DiR^a9o
          give non-standard binaries non-standard names, with instructions on where to get the original
             software distribution.
        h)S
          make other distribution arrangements with the author.
        
          You may modify and include the part of the software into any other software (possibly
             commercial). But some files in the distribution are not written by the author, so that they
             are not under these terms.
          For the list of those files and their copying conditions, see the file LEGAL.
        oF*HGfKi{Z*gcO0@vDVJ
          The scripts and library files supplied as input to or produced as output from the software do not
             automatically fall under the copyright of the software, but belong to whomever generated them,
             and may be sold commercially, and may be aggregated with this software.
        Eel^.|}F(1y6mRx
          THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING,
             WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
             PURPOSE.