The OpenLDAP Public License
        Version 1.4, 18 January 1999
      CW-?j^NeVU	nVAM0
      

      Definitions:
      "Package" refers to the collection of files distributed by the Copyright Holder, and
         derivatives of that collection of files created through textual modification.
      "Standard Version" refers to such a Package if it has not been modified, or has been modified
         in accordance with the wishes of the Copyright Holder.
      "Copyright Holder" is whoever is named in the copyright or copyrights for the package.
      "You" is you, if you're thinking about copying or distributing this Package.
      "Reasonable copying fee" is whatever you can justify on the basis of media cost, duplication
         charges, time of people involved, and so on. (You will not be required to justify it to the Copyright
         Holder, but only to the computing community at large as a market that must bear the fee.)
      "Freely Available" means that no fee is charged for the item itself, though there may be fees
         involved in handling the item. It also means that recipients of the item may redistribute it under the
         same conditions they received it.
      
          You may make and give away verbatim copies of the source form of the Standard Version of this
             Package without restriction, provided that you duplicate all of the original copyright notices
             and associated disclaimers.
        (H?+%f/Ph/
          You may apply bug fixes, portability fixes and other modifications derived from the Public Domain
             or from the Copyright Holder. A Package modified in such a way shall still be considered the
             Standard Version.
        o4B%0!hgak!G	d1MBi
          You may otherwise modify your copy of this Package in any way, provided that you insert a
             prominent notice in each changed file stating how and when you changed that file, and provided
             that you do at least ONE of the following:
        {`D&Z,w:/kkFv%Au
            place your modifications in the Public Domain or otherwise make them Freely Available, such
               as by posting said modifications to Usenet or an equivalent medium, or placing the
               modifications on a major archive site such as uunet.uu.net, or by allowing the Copyright
               Holder to include your modifications in the Standard Version of the Package.
            in0cc\
            use the modified Package only within your corporation or organization.
            6Yh"KQxBi
            rename any non-standard executables so the names do not conflict with standard executables,
               which must also be provided, and provide a separate manual page for each non-standard
               executable that clearly documents how it differs from the Standard Version.
            ;iJon.v{l+AUv(5rX
            make other distribution arrangements with the Copyright Holder.
        #@rEOs.FCe[OhHtai6
          You may distribute the programs of this Package in object code or executable form, provided that
             you do at least ONE of the following:
        ?<u)SHT+3:=1kA
            distribute a Standard Version of the executables and library files, together with
               instructions (in the manual page or equivalent) on where to get the Standard Version.
            qT'n
            accompany the distribution with the machine-readable source of the Package with your modifications.
            {!
            accompany any non-standard executables with their corresponding Standard Version executables,
               giving the non-standard executables non-standard names, and clearly documenting the
               differences in manual pages (or equivalent), together with instructions on where to get
               the Standard Version.
            -b
            make other distribution arrangements with the Copyright Holder.
        g-\,&8BU3hE
          You may charge a reasonable copying fee for any distribution of this Package. You may charge any
             fee you choose for support of this Package. You may not charge a fee for this Package itself.
             However, you may distribute this Package in aggregate with other (possibly commercial)
             programs as part of a larger (possibly commercial) software distribution provided that you do
             not advertise this Package as a product of your own.
        L07a:USC?|7CZ#?
          The scripts and library files supplied as input to or produced as output from the programs of
             this Package do not automatically fall under the copyright of this Package, but belong to
             whomever generated them, and may be sold commercially, and may be aggregated with this
             Package.
        '$cCDXP}jk4P[V
          C subroutines supplied by you and linked into this Package in order to emulate subroutines and
             variables defined by this Package shall not be considered part of this Package, but are the
             equivalent of input as in Paragraph 6, provided these subroutines do not change the behavior
             of the Package in any way that would cause it to fail the regression tests for the
             Package.
        N@~?uh;-BKA
          Software supplied by you and linked with this Package in order to use subroutines and variables
             defined by this Package shall not be considered part of this Package and do not automatically
             fall under the copyright of this Package. Executables produced by linking your software with
             this Package may be used and redistributed without restriction and may be sold commercially so
             long as the primary function of your software is different than the package itself.
        ~O~Pg@H^Bf;A&
          The name of the Copyright Holder may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
             software without specific prior written permission.
        1/VIc3mX)9{zzB
          THIS PACKAGE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
             INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
             PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

      