


Section 1 – Definitions.
6%|}tO/BgaQGn;*rj-O
Adapted Material means material subject to Copyright and Similar Rights that is derived from
or based upon the Licensed Material and in which the Licensed Material is translated,
altered, arranged, transformed, or otherwise modified in a manner requiring permission
under the Copyright and Similar Rights held by the Licensor. For purposes of this Public
License, where the Licensed Material is a musical work, performance, or sound recording,
Adapted Material is always produced where the Licensed Material is synched in timed
relation with a moving image.
YV<2hoHBvAaP
Copyright and Similar Rights means copyright and/or similar rights closely related to
copyright including, without limitation, performance, broadcast, sound recording, and Sui
Generis Database Rights, without regard to how the rights are labeled or categorized. For
purposes of this Public License, the rights specified in Section 2(b)(1)-(2) are not
Copyright and Similar Rights.
{	0aXuk|r%"H'eZnO
Effective Technological Measures means those measures that, in the absence of proper
authority, may not be circumvented under laws fulfilling obligations under Article 11 of
the WIPO Copyright Treaty adopted on December 20, 1996, and/or similar international
agreements.
se"AY_:cA$Jv&0
Exceptions and Limitations means fair use, fair dealing, and/or any other exception or
limitation to Copyright and Similar Rights that applies to Your use of the Licensed
Material.
WanOCT4SS
Licensed Material means the artistic or literary work, database, or other material to which
the Licensor applied this Public License.

Licensed Rights means the rights granted to You subject to the terms and conditions of this
Public License, which are limited to all Copyright and Similar Rights that apply to Your
use of the Licensed Material and that the Licensor has authority to license.
drKL
Licensor means the individual(s) or entity(ies) granting rights under this Public License.
V;(1~s3]?=R8a]Q
NonCommercial means not primarily intended for or directed towards commercial advantage or
monetary compensation. For purposes of this Public License, the exchange of the Licensed
Material for other material subject to Copyright and Similar Rights by digital
file-sharing or similar means is NonCommercial provided there is no payment of monetary
compensation in connection with the exchange.
7ThUd$>j.XvIql/M
Share means to provide material to the public by any means or process that requires
permission under the Licensed Rights, such as reproduction, public display, public
performance, distribution, dissemination, communication, or importation, and to make
material available to the public including in ways that members of the public may access
the material from a place and at a time individually chosen by them.
n* a/\>mqb
Sui Generis Database Rights means rights other than copyright resulting from Directive
96/9/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 1996 on the legal
protection of databases, as amended and/or succeeded, as well as other essentially
equivalent rights anywhere in the world.
D3xyD[0eI
You means the individual or entity exercising the Licensed Rights under this Public License.
Your has a corresponding meaning.
Section 2 – Scope.
],
License grant.
s5?yXVMCE#5'
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Public License, the Licensor hereby grants
You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-sublicensable, non-exclusive, irrevocable license
to exercise the Licensed Rights in the Licensed Material to:
,/'R 4,.4_
reproduce and Share the Licensed Material, in whole or in part, for NonCommercial
purposes only; and
WJ
produce and reproduce, but not Share, Adapted Material for NonCommercial purposes only.
$sm YTMYAI
Exceptions and Limitations. For the avoidance of doubt, where Exceptions and Limitations
apply to Your use, this Public License does not apply, and You do not need to comply
with its terms and conditions.
i@+F.Q#UiCk
Term. The term of this Public License is specified in Section 6(a).
gGK
Media and formats; technical modifications allowed. The Licensor authorizes You to
exercise the Licensed Rights in all media and formats whether now known or hereafter
created, and to make technical modifications necessary to do so. The Licensor waives
and/or agrees not to assert any right or authority to forbid You from making technical
modifications necessary to exercise the Licensed Rights, including technical
modifications necessary to circumvent Effective Technological Measures. For purposes
of this Public License, simply making modifications authorized by this Section 2(a)(4)
never produces Adapted Material.
@+9G[I[J!h-hpB
Downstream recipients.
a\
Offer from the Licensor – Licensed Material. Every recipient of the Licensed Material
automatically receives an offer from the Licensor to exercise the Licensed Rights
under the terms and conditions of this Public License.
H$|R
No downstream restrictions. You may not offer or impose any additional or different
terms or conditions on, or apply any Effective Technological Measures to, the
Licensed Material if doing so restricts exercise of the Licensed Rights by any
recipient of the Licensed Material.
!/u6(NrE%EV.
No endorsement. Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may be construed as
permission to assert or imply that You are, or that Your use of the Licensed Material
is, connected with, or sponsored, endorsed, or granted official status by, the
Licensor or others designated to receive attribution as provided in Section
3(a)(1)(A)(i).
61
Other rights.
2IIWQf>!KN]d
Moral rights, such as the right of integrity, are not licensed under this Public License,
nor are publicity, privacy, and/or other similar personality rights; however, to the
extent possible, the Licensor waives and/or agrees not to assert any such rights held
by the Licensor to the limited extent necessary to allow You to exercise the Licensed
Rights, but not otherwise.
+V!Rv\6<z??
Patent and trademark rights are not licensed under this Public License.
=[<`oRz
To the extent possible, the Licensor waives any right to collect royalties from You for
the exercise of the Licensed Rights, whether directly or through a collecting society
under any voluntary or waivable statutory or compulsory licensing scheme. In all other
cases the Licensor expressly reserves any right to collect such royalties, including
when the Licensed Material is used other than for NonCommercial purposes.
Section 3 – License Conditions.
Your exercise of the Licensed Rights is expressly made subject to the following conditions.
IFm/WIiH$Flh7%V[8
Attribution.
SB9|k[b/!I:,CXcCPFd
If You Share the Licensed Material, You must:
E>Uiu-!#7|6}0
retain the following if it is supplied by the Licensor with the Licensed Material:
^P{pOtkG}+99 
identification of the creator(s) of the Licensed Material and any others
designated to receive attribution, in any reasonable manner requested by
the Licensor (including by pseudonym if designated);
A:
a copyright notice;
$J<&9f
a notice that refers to this Public License;
x`mijxRWU@b
a notice that refers to the disclaimer of warranties;
B
a URI or hyperlink to the Licensed Material to the extent reasonably practicable;
~VE.Ft~!
indicate if You modified the Licensed Material and retain an indication of any
previous modifications; and
X.dw7(t>R5#
indicate the Licensed Material is licensed under this Public License, and include the
text of, or the URI or hyperlink to, this Public License.
For the avoidance of doubt, You do not have permission under this Public License to Share
Adapted Material.
16By8`y[+FO.gu"V
You may satisfy the conditions in Section 3(a)(1) in any reasonable manner based on the
medium, means, and context in which You Share the Licensed Material. For example, it
may be reasonable to satisfy the conditions by providing a URI or hyperlink to a
resource that includes the required information.
NX%uL6Q
If requested by the Licensor, You must remove any of the information required by Section
3(a)(1)(A) to the extent reasonably practicable.
Section 4 – Sui Generis Database Rights.
Where the Licensed Rights include Sui Generis Database Rights that apply to Your use of
the Licensed Material:
&]bBFf}jVm
for the avoidance of doubt, Section 2(a)(1) grants You the right to extract, reuse,
reproduce, and Share all or a substantial portion of the contents of the database for
NonCommercial purposes only and provided You do not Share Adapted Material;

if You include all or a substantial portion of the database contents in a database in which
You have Sui Generis Database Rights, then the database in which You have Sui Generis
Database Rights (but not its individual contents) is Adapted Material; and
M~
You must comply with the conditions in Section 3(a) if You Share all or a substantial portion
of the contents of the database.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 4 supplements and does not replace Your
obligations under this Public License where the Licensed Rights include other
Copyright and Similar Rights.
Section 5 – Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.
m##."}l[
Unless otherwise separately undertaken by the Licensor, to the extent possible, the Licensor
offers the Licensed Material as-is and as-available, and makes no representations or
warranties of any kind concerning the Licensed Material, whether express, implied,
statutory, or other. This includes, without limitation, warranties of title,
merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, absence of latent or
other defects, accuracy, or the presence or absence of errors, whether or not known or
discoverable. Where disclaimers of warranties are not allowed in full or in part, this
disclaimer may not apply to You.
;W}BJ:>[0uM6%8
To the extent possible, in no event will the Licensor be liable to You on any legal theory
(including, without limitation, negligence) or otherwise for any direct, special,
indirect, incidental, consequential, punitive, exemplary, or other losses, costs,
expenses, or damages arising out of this Public License or use of the Licensed Material,
even if the Licensor has been advised of the possibility of such losses, costs, expenses,
or damages. Where a limitation of liability is not allowed in full or in part, this
limitation may not apply to You.
)2f
The disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability provided above shall be interpreted
in a manner that, to the extent possible, most closely approximates an absolute disclaimer
and waiver of all liability.
Section 6 – Term and Termination.
w]A7	\ $:4Z_T&J
This Public License applies for the term of the Copyright and Similar Rights licensed here.
However, if You fail to comply with this Public License, then Your rights under this
Public License terminate automatically.
c-0Jq
Where Your right to use the Licensed Material has terminated under Section 6(a), it reinstates:
,'s1@qH
automatically as of the date the violation is cured, provided it is cured within 30 days
of Your discovery of the violation; or
2M
upon express reinstatement by the Licensor.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 6(b) does not affect any right the Licensor may have
to seek remedies for Your violations of this Public License.
x,`H)U
For the avoidance of doubt, the Licensor may also offer the Licensed Material under separate
terms or conditions or stop distributing the Licensed Material at any time; however, doing
so will not terminate this Public License.
!?U>L!l|EH_+C=xT(?
Sections 1, 5, 6, 7, and 8 survive termination of this Public License.
Section 7 – Other Terms and Conditions.
/HHt_[I"o5?}UkI^{9^
The Licensor shall not be bound by any additional or different terms or conditions
communicated by You unless expressly agreed.
k6XsHEb%!:e}[,%?j
Any arrangements, understandings, or agreements regarding the Licensed Material not stated
herein are separate from and independent of the terms and conditions of this Public
License.
Section 8 – Interpretation.
mrVf"|+FKbUzQY0i
For the avoidance of doubt, this Public License does not, and shall not be interpreted to,
reduce, limit, restrict, or impose conditions on any use of the Licensed Material that
could lawfully be made without permission under this Public License.
jmWp_P}Zc">9~'e#
To the extent possible, if any provision of this Public License is deemed unenforceable, it
shall be automatically reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make it enforceable. If
the provision cannot be reformed, it shall be severed from this Public License without
affecting the enforceability of the remaining terms and conditions.
	wH>|
No term or condition of this Public License will be waived and no failure to comply consented
to unless expressly agreed to by the Licensor.
>Ok;kd6
Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may be interpreted as a limitation upon, or
waiver of, any privileges and immunities that apply to the Licensor or You, including from
the legal processes of any jurisdiction or authority.
Creative Commons is not a party to its public licenses. Notwithstanding, Creative Commons may elect to
apply one of its public licenses to material it publishes and in those instances will be considered
the “Licensor.” The text of the Creative Commons public licenses is dedicated to the public
domain under the CC0 Public Domain Dedication. Except for the limited purpose of indicating that material is shared under a Creative
Commons public license or as otherwise permitted by the Creative Commons policies published at
creativecommons.org/policies, Creative Commons does not authorize the use of the trademark “Creative
Commons” or any other trademark or logo of Creative Commons without its prior written consent
including, without limitation, in connection with any unauthorized modifications to any of its public
licenses or any other arrangements, understandings, or agreements concerning use of licensed material.
For the avoidance of doubt, this paragraph does not form part of the public licenses.
Creative Commons may be contacted at creativecommons.org.
