ERLANG PUBLIC LICENSE Version 1.1

      z*S7$3\_d	
          Definitions.
          $$em-:2Xxk@fIiM
              ``Contributor'' means each entity that creates or contributes to the creation of
                 Modifications.
               
              ``Contributor Version'' means the combination of the Original Code, prior Modifications
                 used by a Contributor, and the Modifications made by that particular Contributor.
               ;/kUqAKy;:X|5!oH/8
              ``Covered Code'' means the Original Code or Modifications or the combination of the
                 Original Code and Modifications, in each case including portions thereof.
               
              ``Electronic Distribution Mechanism'' means a mechanism generally accepted in the
                 software development community for the electronic transfer of data.
               ON
              ``Executable'' means Covered Code in any form other than Source Code.
               /EQk`.<yvs<
              ``Initial Developer'' means the individual or entity identified as the Initial
                 Developer in the Source Code notice required by Exhibit A.
               (
              ``Larger Work'' means a work which combines Covered Code or portions thereof with code
                 not governed by the terms of this License.
               C\3T.TH|{3]Y"]
              ``License'' means this document.
               Q6{W
              ``Modifications'' means any addition to or deletion from the substance or structure of
                 either the Original Code or any previous Modifications. When Covered Code is released as a
                 series of files, a Modification is:
              l#b \tx``
                  Any addition to or deletion from the contents of a file containing Original Code or previous
                     Modifications.
                     
                  Any new file that contains any part of the Original Code or previous Modifications.
               Q{e
              ``Original Code'' means Source Code of computer software code which is described in the
                 Source Code notice required by Exhibit A as Original Code, and which, at the time of its
                 release under this License is not already Covered Code governed by this License.
               kRppzPg3^U{
              ``Source Code'' means the preferred form of the Covered Code for making modifications
                 to it, including all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition files,
                 scripts used to control compilation and installation of an Executable, or a list of source
                 code differential comparisons against either the Original Code or another well known,
                 available Covered Code of the Contributor's choice. The Source Code can be in a
                 compressed or archival form, provided the appropriate decompression or de-archiving software
                 is widely available for no charge.
               HSe
              ``You'' means an individual or a legal entity exercising rights under, and complying
                 with all of the terms of, this License. For legal entities, ``You'' includes any
                 entity which controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with You. For purposes of
                 this definition, ``control'' means (a) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
                 direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of
                 fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of such
                 entity.

        ZIgZQU
          Source Code License.
          -
              The Initial Developer Grant. The Initial Developer hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free,
                 non-exclusive license, subject to third party intellectual property claims:
              j}UUrw^7nQ>07p
                  to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform, sublicense and distribute the Original Code (or
                     portions thereof) with or without Modifications, or as part of a Larger Work; and
                     o1zDJ;!'<7/6
                  under patents now or hereafter owned or controlled by Initial Developer, to make, have made,
                     use and sell (``Utilize'') the Original Code (or portions thereof), but solely
                     to the extent that any such patent is reasonably necessary to enable You to Utilize the
                     Original Code (or portions thereof) and not to any greater extent that may be necessary to
                     Utilize further Modifications or combinations.
               6D,W8o	0z]
              Contributor Grant. Each Contributor hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive
                 license, subject to third party intellectual property claims:
              X@kNK4YLCxmvfH{a
                  to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform, sublicense and distribute the Modifications
                     created by such Contributor (or portions thereof) either on an unmodified basis, with
                     other Modifications, as Covered Code or as part of a Larger Work; and
                     /]P <WJaB)K={\C}BK5
                  under patents now or hereafter owned or controlled by Contributor, to Utilize the Contributor
                     Version (or portions thereof), but solely to the extent that any such patent is reasonably
                     necessary to enable You to Utilize the Contributor Version (or portions thereof), and not
                     to any greater extent that may be necessary to Utilize further Modifications or
                     combinations.

        
          Distribution Obligations.
          -8%PQ!BYSY
              Application of License. The Modifications which You contribute are governed by the terms of this
                 License, including without limitation Section 2.2. The Source Code version of Covered Code may
                 be distributed only under the terms of this License, and You must include a copy of this
                 License with every copy of the Source Code You distribute. You may not offer or impose any
                 terms on any Source Code version that alters or restricts the applicable version of this
                 License or the recipients' rights hereunder. However, You may include an additional
                 document offering the additional rights described in Section 3.5.
               Qe(aI9 X.y1X(@lSl
              Availability of Source Code. Any Modification which You contribute must be made available in
                 Source Code form under the terms of this License either on the same media as an Executable
                 version or via an accepted Electronic Distribution Mechanism to anyone to whom you made an
                 Executable version available; and if made available via Electronic Distribution Mechanism,
                 must remain available for at least twelve (12) months after the date it initially became
                 available, or at least six (6) months after a subsequent version of that particular
                 Modification has been made available to such recipients. You are responsible for ensuring that
                 the Source Code version remains available even if the Electronic Distribution Mechanism is
                 maintained by a third party.
               y?_J{
              Description of Modifications. You must cause all Covered Code to which you contribute to contain
                 a file documenting the changes You made to create that Covered Code and the date of any
                 change. You must include a prominent statement that the Modification is derived, directly or
                 indirectly, from Original Code provided by the Initial Developer and including the name of the
                 Initial Developer in (a) the Source Code, and (b) in any notice in an Executable version or
                 related documentation in which You describe the origin or ownership of the Covered Code.
               T#w2Bau830TB
              Intellectual Property Matters
              (MF26
                  Third Party Claims. If You have knowledge that a party claims an intellectual property right
                     in particular functionality or code (or its utilization under this License), you must
                     include a text file with the source code distribution titled ``LEGAL'' which
                     describes the claim and the party making the claim in sufficient detail that a recipient
                     will know whom to contact. If you obtain such knowledge after You make Your Modification
                     available as described in Section 3.2, You shall promptly modify the LEGAL file in all
                     copies You make available thereafter and shall take other steps (such as notifying
                     appropriate mailing lists or newsgroups) reasonably calculated to inform those who
                     received the Covered Code that new knowledge has been obtained.
                     xxIUQ&]
                  Contributor APIs. If Your Modification is an application programming interface and You own or
                     control patents which are reasonably necessary to implement that API, you must also
                     include this information in the LEGAL file.
               RS79(
              Required Notices. You must duplicate the notice in Exhibit A in each file of the Source Code, and
                 this License in any documentation for the Source Code, where You describe recipients'
                 rights relating to Covered Code. If You created one or more Modification(s), You may add your
                 name as a Contributor to the notice described in Exhibit A. If it is not possible to put such
                 notice in a particular Source Code file due to its structure, then you must include such
                 notice in a location (such as a relevant directory file) where a user would be likely to look
                 for such a notice. You may choose to offer, and to charge a fee for, warranty, support,
                 indemnity or liability obligations to one or more recipients of Covered Code. However, You may
                 do so only on Your own behalf, and not on behalf of the Initial Developer or any Contributor.
                 You must make it absolutely clear than any such warranty, support, indemnity or liability
                 obligation is offered by You alone, and You hereby agree to indemnify the Initial Developer
                 and every Contributor for any liability incurred by the Initial Developer or such Contributor
                 as a result of warranty, support, indemnity or liability terms You offer.
               mK~M
              Distribution of Executable Versions. You may distribute Covered Code in Executable form only if
                 the requirements of Section 3.1-3.5 have been met for that Covered Code, and if You include a
                 notice stating that the Source Code version of the Covered Code is available under the terms
                 of this License, including a description of how and where You have fulfilled the obligations
                 of Section 3.2. The notice must be conspicuously included in any notice in an Executable
                 version, related documentation or collateral in which You describe recipients' rights
                 relating to the Covered Code. You may distribute the Executable version of Covered Code under
                 a license of Your choice, which may contain terms different from this License, provided that
                 You are in compliance with the terms of this License and that the license for the Executable
                 version does not attempt to limit or alter the recipient's rights in the Source Code
                 version from the rights set forth in this License. If You distribute the Executable version
                 under a different license You must make it absolutely clear that any terms which differ from
                 this License are offered by You alone, not by the Initial Developer or any Contributor. You
                 hereby agree to indemnify the Initial Developer and every Contributor for any liability
                 incurred by the Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of any such terms You
                 offer.
               Xa
              Larger Works. You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Code with other code not governed
                 by the terms of this License and distribute the Larger Work as a single product. In such a
                 case, You must make sure the requirements of this License are fulfilled for the Covered
                 Code.
        	kI:b{
          Inability to Comply Due to Statute or Regulation. If it is impossible for You to comply with any
             of the terms of this License with respect to some or all of the Covered Code due to statute or
             regulation then You must: (a) comply with the terms of this License to the maximum extent
             possible; and (b) describe the limitations and the code they affect. Such description must be
             included in the LEGAL file described in Section 3.4 and must be included with all
             distributions of the Source Code. Except to the extent prohibited by statute or regulation,
             such description must be sufficiently detailed for a recipient of ordinary skill to be able to
             understand it.
        wQfx76w>9.x&_et+
          Application of this License.
          This License applies to code to which the Initial Developer has attached the notice in
             Exhibit A, and to related Covered Code.
        Apz5L5[6dK
          CONNECTION TO MOZILLA PUBLIC LICENSE
          This Erlang License is a derivative work of the Mozilla Public License, Version 1.0. It
             contains terms which differ from the Mozilla Public License, Version 1.0.
        5K'RxkBuJh@VKv%W
          DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.
          COVERED CODE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN ``AS IS'' BASIS, WITHOUT
             WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION,
             WARRANTIES THAT THE COVERED CODE IS FREE OF DEFECTS, MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A
             PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND
             PERFORMANCE OF THE COVERED CODE IS WITH YOU. SHOULD ANY COVERED CODE PROVE DEFECTIVE
             IN ANY RESPECT, YOU (NOT THE INITIAL DEVELOPER OR ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THE
             COST OF ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. THIS DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY
             CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF ANY COVERED CODE IS
             AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.
        yu{d{
          TERMINATION.
          This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate automatically if You fail to
             comply with terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becoming aware
             of the breach. All sublicenses to the Covered Code which are properly granted shall
             survive any termination of this License. Provisions which, by their nature, must
             remain in effect beyond the termination of this License shall survive.
        N[g&M=)|H=-j\h1tDi,
          DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY
          Any utilization of Covered Code shall not cause the Initial Developer or any Contributor to
             be liable for any damages (neither direct nor indirect).
        `dk4=
          MISCELLANEOUS
          This License represents the complete agreement concerning the subject matter hereof. If any provision is
             held to be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it
             enforceable. This License shall be construed by and in accordance with the substantive laws of Sweden.
             Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this License, or the breach,
             termination or invalidity thereof, shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of Swedish courts,
             with the Stockholm City Court as the first instance.

      EXHIBIT A.
      ``The contents of this file are subject to the Erlang Public License, Version 1.1, (the
        "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You should have
        received a copy of the Erlang Public License along with this software. If not, it can be retrieved via
        the world wide web at http://www.erlang.org/.
      Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF
        ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing rights and
        limitations under the License.
      The Initial Developer of the Original Code is Ericsson Utvecklings AB. Portions created by Ericsson are
        Copyright 1999, Ericsson Utvecklings AB. All Rights Reserved.''